---
createdAt: 2019-12-30
description: a quick look back at 2019 and what i learned during this year.
hidden: false
image: 'test'
tags: [four, closed source]
title: v0.0.2
updatedAt: null
---

<script>
    import Link from "$components/utilities/Link.svelte"
</script>

This is a complete guide to Amazon arbitrage in 2022. In this in-depth guide, you'll learn:

- What Amazon arbitrage is and how it works
- How Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) arbitrage has been affected by COVID
- How to create your Amazon Seller account
- How to find and evaluate products to flip for profit
- How to prepare and sell your first batch of items
- How to grow and scale an arbitrage business

Let's dive right in.

## What is Amazon arbitrage?

Amazon arbitrage, also known as FBA arbitrage, is simply reselling items purchased from a retailer on Amazon. An example would be buying a cookie jar for $8 from a store like Target and selling it for $25 on Amazon. The difference, after accounting for selling fees and shipping costs, is your profit.

Arbitrage isn't a term specific to Amazon, since it's fundamentally just taking advantage of a price discrepancy in two different marketplaces. You can arbitrage stocks, commodities, currencies, and in this case: physical products.

Amazon arbitrage relies heavily on the <Link href='https://www.britannica.com/topic/supply-and-demand' title='Law of Supply and Demand' isExternal /> in order to create selling opportunities. As long as something is less expensive from one place and sells for more somewhere else, arbitrage is possible. Here are a few examples:

- Walmart has a surplus of inventory it needs to get rid of. You can browse the clearance aisle to find things they're willing to liquidate that are selling for a higher price on Amazon.
- Hasbro is selling a limited-edition collector's item for full price on their website. Since there's a finite quantity in circulation, you think to check the price on Amazon and notice it's selling for 3X what you can buy it for.
- Macy's is running a seasonal sale for Christmas with a 40% off promo code that expires at the end of the week. Normally this product would be break-even profitable to sell on Amazon, but now can pocket $12 more per unit with the sale.

> Amazon arbitrage relies heavily on the Law of Supply and Demand in order to create selling opportunities

Simple situations like these are more common than you would think. **_more_**

## Why choose an arbitrage model?

Arbitrage is a foundational component to the success of Amazon. If the company wasn't able to attract 3rd party sellers to help create a diverse catalog of items, they'd be significantly less dominant than they are today. In a symbiotic relationship, Amazon provides the online presence, the order fulfillment, and the customer service; 3rd party sellers provide products to customers.

Rather than deal with the immeasurable costs of shipping, warehousing, logistics, marketing, programming, and customer support, normal people like you and me get to focus on one thing only: inventory.

The opportunity to reach a global market yet only specialize in one aspect of retail sales is unprecedented, and people are taking notice. Amazon's 3rd party marketplace launched in 2000, and has since grown to 2 million 3rd party sellers providing <Link href='https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/19/amazon-touts-small-business-success-amid-third-party-seller-scrutiny-.html' title="60%+ of the marketplace's sales" isExternal />.

> The opportunity to reach a global market yet only specialize in one aspect of retail sales is unprecedented, and people are taking notice.

An arbitrage model on Amazon flattens the learning curve even more, since you don't even have to develop your own products to join in on the sales. By selling another brand's product, you can piggyback on existing success without needing to conduct R&D or marketing for exposure; the product has already been created and awareness already built.

Amazon needs help selling and individual sellers will always need a springboard, so why not partner up with the most authoritative one in e-commerce?

### Pros and cons of Amazon arbitrage

There are a lot of positives to choosing an arbitrage model to sell on Amazon, but there are also a few negatives to know about.

The 6 big advantages to Amazon arbitrage are:

- Low startup costs
- Ease to learn
- Fast
- Flexible schedule
- No time investment brand-building
- Seamless transition into wholesale or private label

The strengths of arbitrage make a potent combination for people who may be new to the world of e-commerce. There's low overhead, it doesn't take long to see progress, it doesn't require skills like marketing, and there's growth potential into other areas of selling.

However, the primary disadvantages of Amazon arbitrage are side-effects of the good things about it. For instance, one reason why it's easy to start is because you don't need to build wholesale or distributor connections. Consequently, you don't get wholesale pricing, instead having to buy inventory from retailers. You don't necessarily have a predictable supply and constantly need to be on lookout for the next deal.

Although being able to piggyback on another brand cuts years off of getting involved in e-commerce, the downside is that you're not building your own long-term empire. <Link href='https://unctad.org/news/global-e-commerce-jumps-267-trillion-covid-19-boosts-online-sales' title='E-commerce has seen massive growth due to COVID' isExternal />, and it still has an amazingly bright future. However, you won't be able to build a self-sustaining e-commerce business without investing in your own brand.

The last disadvantage to arbitrage is that it's tough to scale. The ability to find new products is directly proportional to the time spent in research. This is a linear, rather than exponential investment. Sourcing new products to flip is a necessary grind, and many sellers get burnt out in the process. The best way around this is to have experienced sellers do the research for you with an [online arbitrage sourcing list](https://leadgeek.io/product/online-arbitrage-sourcing-list/) which allow you to save your energy to yay-or-nay those recommendations.

For many people, the strengths of arbitrage outweigh the weaknesses and are a great introductory step to learn e-commerce.

### Is Amazon arbitrage legal?

First, let's dispel the myth that arbitrage is against any rule. The legality of buying items from one place and selling for a higher price on another is sometimes called into question. Not only is this process in line with free-market capitalism, but arbitrage is legal according to the Supreme Court's <Link href='https://www.justice.gov/archives/jm/criminal-resource-manual-1854-copyright-infringement-first-sale-doctrine' title='First Sale Doctrine' isExternal />.

Though legal, not all products _can_ be resold on Amazon. A few years back, shady sellers were hawking inauthentic goods on the platform. Customers got burned, Amazon's reputation took a hit, and sellers were banned. Since then, Amazon has set up safeguards to prevent inauthentic goods from getting into the marketplace with a product gating system (i.e. product restriction system).

You may have heard that brands like Nike, Adidas, and Sony are gated for new sellers. This is true, and there also are sub-categories like "topicals" in "beauty & personal care" that are also gated.
